Hi and welcome back.
In this video, as we're approaching the end
of the course, I wanted to show you a bit more
how I work on my day to day.
What you have seen so far is me working with
a setup that is, I think, quite good for recording
but you've not seen the actual way that I work
at my computer every day.
So I thought it may be interesting
to show you how I go about doing my job
just in case you want to replicate some of these things
if you find them interesting.
Now, normally you'll see me and many other
software engineers coding with a dark theme.
This is a white theme and it,
right now it says, it's getting a bit late
you can see the time up on the top right
it's half eight at night,
using a white theme at this time of the day
is actually not the nicest thing to use
so I normally use a dark theme
and I find it's just a bit more readable
and also I just find the colours,
I said that very weirdly,
I find the colours pop a bit more
so things like key words and things like that
are just a bit more visible when you're using
a dark theme, so what I normally do
is I have a different theme.
Now you can see that the theme here
is default in PyCharm when I open the settings
and you go to appearance,
you normally, I normally use in PyCharm
a Darcula theme so you can apply that
and then you can see immediately
that we have sort of changed quite a bit.
We are now in a dark mode,
you can see the font has changed as well
and you probably can't see it as well
'cause it's much smaller.
Of course when I'm recording I use a huge font
just so you guys can see it very easily
but when I'm working I don't use a huge font like that.
But let's go over to the preferences once again
and I'll show you what I do use in the editor
and in font.
So in the colour scheme here, you can see
that I've got my own custom scheme which
is called Darcula_Jose, that's just for me
and in here, I've overwritten quite a few things.
In code, possibly,
let me go and find it again,
font, here, oh there you go,
colour scheme font.
I'm using frequently I use a font called
Essential PragmataPro, that depends
or whether I use this font or not
depends on the size of my screen
so I don't actually use PyCharm all that often
when I'm working at this computer,
I use it all the time at work
but when I'm working at this computer at home,
I've stopped using PyCharm a bit more
just 'cause it's a bit too heavy duty
for the things I do when I'm in my free time.
So if I'm using a small screen,
like a laptop which I frequently do
I'll use Essential PragmataPro.
Essential PragmataPro is a paid font
but I find it really readable when it's small
and also because it's a skinny font
it's taller than it is wide,
it is very good for small screen,
you can fit more characters on a small screen
and you can still read it nicely.
So Essential PragmataPro paid font,
but very nice for small screens.
When I'm using a larger screen like I am doing right now
for recording, I would actually not use
Essential PragmataPro, I would use Fira Code
so this is the font I use normally on my day to day
when I am at home.
So if we apply that, you can see that it looks
a bit different.
Now one of the reasons I've stopped using PyCharm
at home is because it's too heavy duty
and another reason is that this font
just looks a little bit weird in my eyes
the spacing between the letters
is a bit too much and in PyCharm
you cannot actually change that
which is a little bit annoying.
PyCharm does have the tendency of adding
too much space between letters.
So I'll go into, in a moment what I do
to avoid that.
So this is a font that I normally use,
feel free to use that,
Fira Code is a free font, you can download it
and you can use it, it's up to you.
One of the good things about Fira Code
is the font ligatures so if you want to enable
them just press enable font ligatures
and then you can press okay and then you'll
get a few things that change in the font,
for example if you type equal greater than
you'll get this little arrow instead
of two separate symbols.
Similarly, if you type a greater than or equal to
in Python, so that's these two characters together,
you get this mathematical symbol for greater than
or equal to, so I quite like the symbols,
some people don't like them so Fira Code
does that for you if you enable the font ligatures
and if that's something you wanna do,
you can use this font as well.
And the other things are the language defaults,
sort of the colours for things.
And I've modified some of these colours
so that keywords are orange,
I just find them, they pop much more easily
and they're very readable like that
and of course a few other changes
here as well, like the underlines and so forth.
Feel free to change these to match your own style
and what you like as well.
It took me quite a while to find a colour scheme
for PyCharm that I really liked,
but I've actually not changed this one in a long time.
So I do like it but PyCharm adds a bit too much spacing
between letters so normally I would use the other font,
Essential PragmataPro on particularly
a small screen if I was using PyCharm.
But at home, I am not using PyCharm any more
and I'm also not using Essential PragmataPro
really because I have two large screens
and so I'm using Visual Studio Code
that actually you can see just here.
Here are my notes for the last few lectures,
you can see I've got a split screen there
and here I'm using Fira Code as well
with also a dark theme, quite a nice theme here.
And this is what I normally code in
when I'm working on course material
or small applications like I do at home,
I use Visual Studio Code, I find it's
quite straightforward to use.
And I also use Visual Studio Code at work
when I'm working on JavaScript applications
just because it works very nicely for that
and I find just the structure of JavaScript applications
and the user Fira Code helps with that.
Using Fira Code and PyCharm can be a bit
more tricky because of the letter spacing.
So that's it.
In terms of the settings in Visual Studio Code,
I have a few extensions installed
and you can see them here.
I have a bunch of them but really
the most important ones for me
are ESLint which integrates a linter
into JavaScript code, very much like PyLint for Python
you've got ESLint for JavaScript
and you've got Flow Language which adds types
to JavaScript and then you've got a few other
things here that are maybe more interesting to you
like Jinja which allows us to look at Jinja code
which is used in Flask.
I've got Python which is an extension
that allows you to write Python code
and it adds things like lintin, debugging and so forth
into Visual Studio Code which is very useful
and also something I do like is VSCode Icons.
When you go back to your
explorer here, that's what it's called,
you can see little icons beside the files
and that just sort of helps identify them a bit nicer.
I generally like the look of Visual Studio Code
a bit more than I do of PyCharm
but the PyCharm debugger is much more powerful
than anything I've managed to use in Visual Studio Code
so when I'm working in Python,
I use PyCharm because of the debugger almost exclusively.
When I'm working in JavaScript because the debugging
capabilities are much worse,
it doesn't really matter which one I use
so I tend to prefer Visual Studio Code.
And that's it, Visual Studio Code
also gives you a few nice things
like it's pretty nice search.
The Git source control is quite powerful
and quite nice to use and then it's got
a debugger as well but as I said with JavaScript
it's not so fantastic so I tend not to use it
all that often.
The theme I think is called,
I'm not sure what it's called actually
but I will put a wee link to the sort of settings
that I'm using here just in case
you want to give it a go as well.
Down here in Visual Studio Code
you've also got a terminal so you don't have
to open a separate application and frequently
I use this terminal here to do things
like run my Python apps or my linter
or whatever.
So it's pretty nice to have that in here as well.
Anyway, that's it for this video,
just wanted to show you what I normally work with
and to paired with these two programmes
that I use for software development,
I also use of course Slack as a communication tool
to talk with my teammates and that's pretty much
always running and of course email as well
to, for to do, to do wider company updates
and things like that.
That's it for this video.
Hope you enjoyed it, and I'll see you on the next one.